cuter okay
hi everyone welcome this is the dynamic
data and capabilities working group
November 13th meeting my name is Pedro
I'll be I'll be the note-taker today and
let's start so recording is done so
everyone please add your names you know
your name to the list of attendees and
yes please add your items to each end if
you want to have a discussion at the end
or before demos whatever you think is
or appropriate
let's start with the updates
let's do it by the order of the attendee
list on top so first off is Andre Cruz
yeah hello so some of you might know I
mean we work on specified so during the
the last the last meeting - until now
I've been working on the world map as
many of us but the first iteration
iteration so I think we finished it so
in terms of success if I I finished an
issue that Andrea created which was
related to small issues around things
related to why and like things that were
mispositioned or it was just wrong so it
created an issue with a list of things
that it detected and I fixed them and
also we took some time to sterilize some
components around the style guide mainly
related to the comments like the
comments when they are loading the names
when they are learning when they are
loaded when they are when they are
there's an error and so on so it some
time to sanitize on that if this
requires a few key factor in terms of
naming and with a few components so in
terms of what I'm doing and I'm
finalizing right now which is the
replies I'm finished finishing them in
terms of you know the ability to reply
to comments and also as a secondary task
appeared and she's related to the lazy
load of the comments because whenever
you have a reply and they are many
replies you need to be able to lazy load
like show more and some more until you
reach the hand of the list so I'm
working on that hopefully it will be
finished in I would say Thursday so next
time I will be working on show history
and also the persistence yesterday
turbines waiting the Pinner so of course
if the working group would map wouldn't
like take some time
so much time like fall off my time I
probably already have finished these two
points but fact unfortunately I I
couldn't so hopefully with this week I
will finish the next week's I will
finish a lot of all these tasks and I
think this that's it
any questions for the day
you
I got one question
which is related to the world map and
because Adina I think we factor the pier
pods milestones and actually made them
ran or made a card again sorry they made
more granularly like when Oh points
milestones and but discussed if I just
like a big list of points and in a big
milestone which is version one should
shall I make it be annular to be
consistent with the rest of the one not
or not well it's I think it's good for
now instead of our situation so let's
just wait for for feedback from gpfs
project management so yeah I think
that's that's right okay I have a
question for you so there is a lot of
the comments on this classify can you
elaborate a bit on an honest strategy is
it related to visibility or are you
making the load sequential the loads I
know that for it is just for everyone to
be on the same page each one of the
comments is it just a link to appear
first when I profess object that
contains the the comment itself so they
have to be loaded synchronously
promise you yeah yeah so the charity
data or the value of to see ret just
like an index of pointers for ipfs notes
so the lazy load means that is the
combination of a visual expect and also
and also the lazy load of the command
itself so initially when you enter the
discussion I fetch the whole index of
the Chateauguay but it doesn't contain
the comments and then I just apply
display the last ten comments like let's
let's put it like that the last ten
comments and once you use called talk I
will be loading the next 10 and the next
end and next ten and so on this also
applies to the replies because every
place can can have more than
and replies and in this case you have a
button to load more and when you click
it it shows an extent which in turn will
fetch the next like it will fetch from I
profess the comments themselves like the
content of the comments I mean the
avatar the user information okay okay
thank you we have a new participant Devi
doll
I love it hey hello do you have the link
for the notes I do not sorry welcome let
me paste you into the group chat thank
you so you can you can if you want you
can add yourself there if you want to
give us at the end like a quick intro
about yourself and and also feel free to
to at the end of it now we're running
doing the individual updates and if you
have questions by depending on which one
you feel free to post your questions
cool so next up is Victor yes everyone
will hear me okay by 8:00 so what I am
in doing so forum on pure pound has been
relatively simple so I've added our own
reporting we are all bar so every time
an error happens on peridot nuts we get
a notification and we can see what a
what the error is is currently missing
one thing that is very necessary
actually and is to when we are deploying
a new build we need to have the source
map in roll bar so we can see actually
where the error is happening right now
we just the line one column 4000 which
is super helpful in general so I'm gonna
I'm gonna add a text then in general
what I am
doing right now first I'm looking at the
UX proposal that has has been working on
and I'm going through that and making
sure it makes sense it seems to just be
missing some things might be the states
of the collaborators and being able to
see the pinners and stuff like that so
I'm gonna make some suggestions around
that the other thing that I'm looking
into right now is everything about the
Pinner so I'm mainly looking at the
architecture and the functionality I
guess of the Pinner and how how people
would actually use the Pinner
and how we can have collaborative
pinning I'm not looking so much at the
code itself right now there will be a
next X then after that I will start
looking into how we can deploy the
Pinner and how we can have it sort of as
a bundle that people can can use so if
you're in a local network you could have
a Pinner that maybe ships with pier pad
stuff like that so we can have it usable
in applying scenarios then probably we
need to have a rendezvous server for us
right now and I don't know we that would
be a next step to figure out exactly
what room and also having metrics it's
probably also a bit tight to the Pinner
not sure about that right now but having
some sort of metrics so we can see how
people are using pier pub and how much
they are using pier pub and that's it
for my update any questions
yeah I got a question which is related
to insights are you are you looking into
collecting like performance metrics from
our users let's say yeah how much does
it take to you know receive a delta and
refi the sinusoids and so on it in a
variety of devices like slow like slow
devices and more performant devices yeah
I I think that will be very important in
general table I think that the first
step is not so much thinking about
exactly what what metrics we need just
to make it easy to add new metrics and
have a way of collecting metrics from
like asynchronously so if you if you run
your card you know
in our disconnected at work or to
aggregated metrics and then send them to
us so we don't just collect metrics from
pure badness like the deployed version
but even when someone is just doing ad
hoc collaboration on a train and I see
something is funky they should be able
to like same a bundle of the metrics and
then send us an email when they are
online so that would be the first thing
I would look into and then we can start
adding these like performance metrics
used search retrieve whatever we feel
like collecting basically that was also
a question what type of metrics were you
going to collect and so just just a
caveat Pinner yeah if the the how the
Pinner behaves right now in regards to
private collaborations so they were
encrypted and they only get the full
state and they cannot look into the
states so there is not much but not much
they they can extract from that you can
extract from the pin yourself so I guess
that you're also looking into of course
so the centralized metrics so that's
that's yeah like the current plan is to
have some sort of protocol where you can
when you load Pierre part you can enable
metric sending to a different host and
then when you you are one the protocol
labs people for example or collaborating
they would say yeah we want to collect
these metrics in case something goes
wrong and then it will be sent to
another host on the local network and
and collect the bundle so I I don't
think it in itself will be tied to the
Pinner but I'm I'm starting to think
that we need some sort of bundles that
kind of like contains a pin or a
rendezvous server the serving of the
Pierre pad bundle metrics collector and
stuff like that so that will be the next
steps to figure out like well how would
a bundle like that look
ooh
Thank You Marquess
our Victor no like you know I have
questions once I need to start looking
for the feature so afterwards I of
course I need to sync with Victor and
see what's what's the best solution for
it cou then you're next
okay so basic synchronizing of two
graphs is up and running updates seem to
work okay
I'm not sure how much to progress on
like having a more sophisticated
algorithm than just for instance sends
the whole graph and sync him up locally
because some of that may or may not
overlap with IP LD selector work I sat
in on the week by weekly call with them
yesterday it's still a little unclear
but I think I'd like to move into like
the the API get this tested space um
which means I think trying to build like
a bit of like a you know a basic you are
like custom stuff for like a causal chat
client I think using yjs makes sense and
just use like local like HTTP bindings
so any advice from the people who have
been using that to make your pad go
would be would be helpful I'm also a
little blocked by the not not having
like a wallet or a friend's API
discussed yet because the model one of
the models that I'm trying out for the
persistence layer involves knowing who
you're sharing what and ideally I'd like
to do that in a way that makes sense you
know sort of across applications so if
we're ready to start talking about those
sorts of things I can dedicate more of
my time towards the API thing or I can
just kind of make it up as I go along
and then we'll come back and refactor
later so I yeah I'm not sure which
direction we're ready to go yet
okay any questions or comments for then
if not I have I have yeah just a comment
regarding watch yes so correctly it's
not what is that that is the Sierra T
behind the pure pad it's a database
yjs is operation biased and it uses
there's there's generator API for that
well it can experiment with that it's
fine
there are also other charity tools there
is ones that we're using in gear pad and
peer start which is Delta charities so
they're not operation by solar state
state Delta and state based charities if
you're you want to look into that that
you're thinking a graph but regarding
that I have a question so you're doing
graph change so if you right now as I
understand you have you're seeking the
entire graph to the other side and then
doing your local emerge right are using
graphs Inc itself or using just bit swap
well yeah so I guess sort of like
neither on what I'm doing is I'm not the
plan is C is um for the time being just
sort of basic you know protocol on TCP
connections to share the the graph which
just contains the not the data itself
but the CID is for the data and then use
regular bit swap stuff to get data
because grassing it's I don't like the
I'm having we're having a words problem
I'm trying to synchronize two graphs you
have graph a I have graph B and we
synchronize them
and I think Graf sank TM which they're
still working on and has like three
different versions is is more about like
bit swap replacement yeah it's a girl
she's been in growth swap or right yeah
right so so there are some naming
problems so that's why I like every time
I write out like graph synchronization
or something cuz that's that's just the
simple yeah
version of what it is and the idea is
that hopefully that data shouldn't be
too Prabhat very large graphs the data
shouldn't be too expensive too son
especially since I'm not planning at
least short term for a few reasons not
planning on having like every letter be
a new Delta in the tree and it sort of
bundling them off a little more well
yeah I guess it depends on the
granularity that you're using but if
you're using like the the the typical
operation base strategy approach I think
you end up with with a well depending on
on the concurrency but by default it's
one writer you'll have like a list of
empanada a list of operations and you
learned that even to think that we're
using bits for it to be in a receiver
side it will be one by one unless there
is a pre render of it over of that tree
and you know exactly which IDs to to
fetch in more or less yeah there's gonna
have to be probably until grass sync is
running I'll probably circumvent it with
some sort of like a want list where I
just say I want you know as soon as I
find someone who has anything asking and
say here's the whole graph that I want
but I don't want to think the people who
are working on like graphs Inc as a way
of fetching lots of data are
I should let them do their thing and
instead work on the the naming API right
effectively what I'm thinking
synchronizing the graphs is about naming
and keeping the latest version and then
how do I get all of the deltas is like
grass is like a bit swap crap same
language exactly I get back core people
are happy to deal with that was the
approach of pure star that's that's the
approach so we have a replication
specific application protocol for that
I'm also very interested in how well
I've been like poking around in a pill
the graph sync people now and then but
if you're interested you can you can
like like talk to them and keep that
flame alive yeah no one there that would
be I think useful because that for them
to have a lot of use case in mind would
be helpful
I had a question for is David because
because he's here which is in order for
me right like you're doing identity
stuff and there's gonna be some sort of
coalescing of like here my care of my
friends or here's like a bunch of
different public keys that are all mine
is there anything you have inserted in
progress for that or is that still TBD
so I thought that was where I was going
next and I thought I was going to do
something like that I was imagining
where any observed peer would be saved
and you know possibly merged with
everyone else's maybe orbit DB instance
that just to try to create like this big
huge bundle of knowing who all these
people are or at least knowing that
these peers existed or you saw this peer
and maybe this peer shared their public
key with you and just to sort of
casually store this data to be able to
sync it since it's all public that's
where I was going but since talking to
you guys recently I realized that
there's a lot of stuff I didn't
understand
where you were going with the Identity
Manager I've been trying to read all of
the you know verifiable credential specs
and and decentralize identity specs and
I really want to support that stuff and
I've been collaborating with a guy named
Tyler yet yasaka from from what's the
protocol so he's got a library that
that's gonna do decentralized identity
formatting and verification so there's a
lot of cool stuff going on and I really
I don't know I guess this is turning
into an update but I've looked very much
forward to collaborating with you guys
on this have you had those and what is
your what is your concept that you've
had for that I think we had a we had a
couple of discussions about this some
smaller groups um I think is part of the
roadmapping talked a little bit about
this I think what what I see is that
like Andre is working at the identity
management and the identity manager and
like in that sort of thing and there's
the there's I have my idea there's
generating my D ID there's I want to
manage properties of my D ID and then
there is the what do I do when I have it
and so I think I what I may end up doing
unless there's someone else who's in the
middle of something
regarding this is try to put the API for
what happens given that I already have a
D ID and I already have a public key
where do I where do I store this stuff
so that I can use it as part of an
application just because that's I need
that in order to you know find the
people and keep track of the people and
sharing one yeah I was thinking of like
minimizing the traffic by you know
storing and pinning and then only
sharing a single hash you know in that
where I'm collecting
information about people I'm only really
collecting a bunch of ashes I don't know
where that gets me but oh sorry uh yeah
I I was thinking at least to get started
have a bit of a um we'll call it like
application-specific local like data
right I want to be able to store and
reference whether through IP NS or
something else sort of the application
data that's just mine and some of it is
gonna be synchronized but some of the
user stuff I'm gonna want to keep as
just me if for no reason other than
there are systems you can set up with
this that you're gonna want to have spam
filtering for and you can just use your
friends list as spam filters but I think
a lot of it just is it's that basic step
if I want to have app data that belongs
to me which which you've been talking
about a little bit yeah that's the part
of beautiful well of the the first draft
of the 2019 working group roadmap to
have private private app specific data
based on an identity so that's that's
something we we are actively going to
pursue not but we're address right now
is is working on on finishing that well
the discuss if I some features always
classify and then I believe he will jump
into an editing manager stuff and I
believe that we well having this
discussion here perhaps it's useful that
we had like a reserved an entire hour
for instance if you're available for us
to three or four or five whoever's
interested in identity to the 4:12 like
a deep dive discussion makes sense yeah
it was I was thinking of I think it's
it's better to because I mean there's
also a Dean now and David also wants to
to give in some innings and views on
these subjects and so I think it's a
good approach to have like a session
deep dive session of ideas and
and things about identity and perhaps
converging for something together yeah
if you're okay with that the fittest
like do a doodle for what like this week
the availability of this week and people
can pick and choose some small diets and
then we we can and schedule something
before the end of the week if that's
okay sounds good to me all right
beautiful yeah so lot of tested
sorry I took note of that so that you
can you know see the notes if you see
the notes I marked thank you like
scheduling this session yeah I was going
to do the note so synchronously but
thank you for that that's very good cool
all right so I think I hope that that
answers both of your questions again
regarding the strategy part and then
Jack Kilby and then identity that I
believe your see my block on let's keep
keep talking about about that next step
unless there is no more questions to it
in you know so next up it's it's me
so what have I been doing quickly so
yeah I guess I some people on this
working group I've been working on do
2019 broad map for the working up the
first situation of it it's not finished
every screencast eventually that this
data will become public as it's being
discussed and with the threads between
different working groups on on ipfs are
going to be tied together and then once
the story is more coherent it will be
exposed to go to the community in
general and then we have will have a
discussion more public discussion once
that is is more mature in terms of peer
star app there's a bunch of fixes that I
did some fixes regarding membership so
collaboration membership and to select
which peers to connect to once in
the membership so that it doesn't bloat
so that in a large new collaboration
with many members that we don't try to
connect to everyone there were some bugs
in in there and that there wasn't
balanced was getting in balance that was
one peer that were depending on the
position one P was getting more
connections to it then all the other
peers on average so that's corrected
there's also the duplication of the
membership addresses because you can
have many binding addresses right and
there was some some duplication because
we're using an austerity to propagate
membership and I said it she has to hand
local currency and the way that we're
joining it then has to be also
duplicated so there's a bunch of issues
there on the notes Pinner the Pinner
story is a bit better so Pinner now only
gets full stats so that doesn't have to
know the the keys for any collaboration
so the states are encrypted if the
cooperation is secret there's also pin
there's specific tests for the pin here
now on the peer star app there is some
some fixes that hopefully would prevent
flooding on the membership broadcast on
an honor given collaboration one of them
was heuristic sampling determination
what should be synchronous and the
effect was a bit perverse the effect was
because the the floating that for
instance chrome does when tabs are off
are invisible then there would be an
accumulation of a synchronous i/o
operations and they would fire at the
same time which would then broadcast a
bunch of membership messages depending
on the related all the time that the tab
was was light installments
and so hopefully that is corrected so
it's very hard to detect you because it
depends on the the chrome throttling the
tab so yeah there was a bunch of chores
like linting putting AG r and linking
and fixing those those linking errors
and in progress i have i'm working on
exposing the collaboration replication
events so once you have the
collaboration and we replicate the
changes to other peers you get you
expose some events like is that peer
up-to-date with my changes I have
received some changes from the other
peer and I have save changes to a
certain Pinner so that's that's our
those are the three categories that I'm
working on and if you have time I have a
demo like a very early demo on on that
next block next is to continue this this
work and also an issue that I opened is
to support different replica strategies
for a local store so support teams work
of whether to persist every oppression
synchronously or just do it all in
memory or have a strategy that balances
both of these Friday strategies and
that's it any question for me
No all right so let's move on and the
rest awesome hi everyone so I've been
working closely with and recruit for the
pre-alpha version of this cause if I do
we see this week we define the
membership convention for some
components such as the comment one and
we have a updated style guide with all
the changes just to make sure that the
design and off and everything that is
implemented implemented is consistent
after that I just follow Victor's
feedback regarding peer path there are
pixels regarding UX and UI level degrees
with greed with with 80 columns will
change for desktop version there there
are now some dismiss to all
notifications
I created the empty state illustration
and the all the history section was
revised as well
I am blogs right now on your part mobile
the following also the beat feedback
just to make sure that was first we have
a polished person for desktop on that
mobile version I had predicted some
transitions between between elements
start defining some some values for the
users and this will be an backlog until
the next version is completed so in
progress right now I'm working on a
quite simple exercise which is a brand
manual for the web and brand guidelines
for discuss if I just to make something
really simple and then looking for for
new features for a few parts to sync
with Victor and our colleague it will be
the next steps I guess and that's it hi
Jim I saw that specific feedback that we
gave you on the mobile mobile and that
actually I was not actually happy with
his feedback I am a strong believer in
mobile first development having done
this for clients for like a long time
and like if you if you leave the mobile
app for later its
way more work to do it and and the
majority of usage is in mobile so you're
actually like making the desktop one
first is not but yeah
okay well my only concern that because
was predicted mobile-first since we
don't have anything right now on
pierpass just working accordingly so
yeah that was my first my first thoughts
trying to develop that same time that's
the desktop but yeah if we need to stop
it it's the best decisions of Victor
yeah I was gonna say I agree with David
that we need to we need to appear pub
working correctly for us before we can
focus on having it on other platforms
and I think the main use case of Pierre
pad is using it for collaborating of
notes when you actually have like a
productive device with you which are
mobile devices usually for consumption
so we can we can make sure that the
various working for mobile device but
the the input methods of mobile is gonna
take so long time to get right
especially because it be the centralized
stuff that it just makes sense first
focus first on the desktop version
rather than doing it mobile first
which would be simpler if we have our
centralized service and we don't have to
deal with like keyboard inputs and
focuses of
I yeah I I agree I think I think it
might be good to have like we don't need
mobile version that avoids a lot of
these problems and then just like bulls
from snapshots so that it doesn't need
to do a lot like some of the fancier
peer-to-peer stuff so yeah
okay more questions for that
alright so next up is Jim
jim-jim your minute
sorry there's a bunch of little things
so obviously the the road Mackworth work
which everybody it participated in going
back two weeks they were I found some
issues with the or map CDT which sent
some fixes for that petrol integrated
those Pedro had fixed some of the editor
binding issues that I was seeing those
causing corruption between my different
instances as I integrate those in and
tested them and that they're working
good for me then I was two weeks ago but
we did some real-life testing with the
pl staff I just got on to the slack and
tried to get a bunch of people to edits
the things together it worked okay but
then there was just like the whole thing
collapsed after a while because of gham
because I I ended up calling them zombie
gossip messages and it's a different
gossip problem than when the Pedro was
talking about so this is this is
actually a problem that is probably
needs to be fixed it needs to be figure
out exactly what triggers it in the
first place because they're not if I can
reproduce it but having a lot all the
staff editing a document at the same
time definitely triggered it and I was
able to you know it wasn't like I'd shut
down all all my peers and the messages
would just keep going so it was actually
just in this GSI PFS nodes that were out
there so so this is just pub/sub problem
so anyways I ended up making my own
branch of the GSI PFS and the the pled
sub just so I could add in some extra
features just so I could kill the gossip
messages that were just not dying so
and it stops doing that by adding in
like time stamping and things which is
not a good solution because you can't
depend on all the different clients
having synchronized clocks so this isn't
like a problem that I can push forward
and like just do a pull request on so I
think what I want to do with this one is
I want to do this work in the simulation
environment stuff that Pedro has been
working on and see if I can configure
things in such a way and have the same
problem happening in simulation and then
we can have the discussion like where
did where did the mitigations for this
go in but I what I was experiencing it
like I shut down every single note that
I controlled but there were still peers
out there that had participated in the
collaboration that you know people had
left the browser windows open or
something that were the source of the
zombie these gossip messages that were
you know they they were like six six
hours old
ten hours old you know and they just
kept repeating repeating repeating and
coming in and if you look at the
implementation of flood sub it only
squashes messages that are more than
less than 60 seconds old so but if the
latency on got pub/sub message is more
than 60 seconds they'll just continue
forever they'll just ping pong back and
forth so this seems to be like a pretty
bad problem it's gonna take out any
production peer pad thing that we said
that we don't fix it so so yeah so that
took a few days it was I was I wasn't
surprised at how at that problem so and
then after I got so in my version I got
a little version to fix that or at least
I can kill messages that I have time
stamps or more than say 10 seconds old
and then I don't modified the pub/sub
doesn't mean lay them
react.js binding was sort of it wasn't
really done right so on Android like I
couldn't really type at all because so I
did a few fixes to that but I want it I
think we have to decide what's going to
happen with the production pure pad
version because those changes definitely
need to go into that the child
get the Peter Pan and end load tests
working so I usually started with just
the end-to-end tests but apparently
those are just nobody's been using them
so they did their there they expect
things to appear and the patient have
been removed from the page so the end
and load test worked worked pretty neat
that I was having fun with that side I
picked it up to ten I got ten nodes
going it went at the same time on my
machine twenty sort of lost up my
machine was doing it took up my yeah so
that that seems like a good framework
but I think the challenge is going to be
like like we have one test but we need
like 20 little tests to to focus on in
certain areas and I think about that the
smoke test should be fixed I should
actually add that so I I just want to
make one comments about end-to-end tests
which I also had included in the road
map document is that there is the BGP
team is putting together it like a
pretty robust test and and I think we
should try to use that little talk more
outside of this meeting but okay you
know that'd be good and then my final
demo I tried I put together I just had
this idea that because I took all the
encryption out of mine I can I could
just say the the the document name and I
just reversed it and put on a wild-card
DNS and so our my demo then each person
we can just have like multiple documents
and it's just something like name a
document dot in my my I had a fertile
domain name I to play for that and then
I tried to get that to use that
internally but I think there's still
some bugs and so so that that's having
like
like DNS mapped to it is like a feature
that is probably something that could be
discussed as a feature for actual Pierre
pad or have like like human rememberable
names but because it was just my my demo
I could just do it but for I think
there's some discussion about how
identity and yeah having like say list
of documents that you worked on could go
into the pier pad
production version having how the key
staff work was that so with with my with
my pier pad nano the purpose the whole
purpose exercise was to strip all the
features out so I took out I'm not using
any of the the encryption capability
which which means that any document
that's published there anybody can just
go modify so you know but that wasn't
the area I wanted to focus on I wanted
to focus on pinning and and that sort of
thing so it was easy to integrated in I
think like once you start trying to
think about making secure documents and
limiting the the participation in and
that that creates a lot of UX and things
have to be figured out so so I I might
you know still do versions of pier pad
nano which focus on different problems
so like I might do version of your pad
nano that has the keys put back into it
but then it would drop some of the other
features that conflict with that so but
it
so okay so so my biggest problem right
now is peer pad Nano is diverged too
much from the production version so I'm
pretty much I just want to pat down to
be stable so we can dog food I'm that's
one of the things I have listed for
blocking is I think because we've had
that so much time put into the planning
process for the corporates stuff there
hasn't been a lot of time for additional
meetings to talk about product
management so I think that's a blocker
that will probably resolve itself in the
next couple weeks and I see like Petro
stainless happening where Dirk staying
pending work and
we need to really figure out what the
story is for that so and I am willing to
throw in indecent work on that and then
I want to characterize some of these
issues I've found because we those are
going to have to be fixed in the
production version and yeah and then
yeah also next week I'm going to go to
been invited to give a talk in Tokyo so
I'm going to be in Japan next week so
I'm still gonna be working but it might
actually work better the time zones
actually match up better with Europe so
Victor yeah sorry I I have a question
regarding because none of us as a whole
I've been unable to find any sort of
description or requirements or roadmap
or what what Nano is actually supposed
to to be and when when we consider it to
be like finished
like I I I am the stanitsa like an
experimental test but for the Pinner and
some other collaborative features right
now but I I don't I don't see how do we
know when it's like of success so we're
behind or anything like that like okay
it's difficult because it's basically
just when you're logging on the Nano
you're logging onto the machine I'm
working on right now
like the desktop that I'm talking on
right now like it's not meant to be a
big thing like we want to move these
changes into pierpan itself so no no
it's just my working copy yeah I I am I
don't see any where were so for the for
the pin or for example as far as we have
been talking about the pin or in general
it's always been that it's experimental
at this point is it's not ready for
production but I don't I don't see the
the road map of what what's missing for
it to be ready to production how do we
get it into production there seems it
seems to be a continuously effort that
we don't currently have we don't see a
end to it yeah we we don't know when
it's gonna be finished or even what
finished means you know we just need
some meetings like we haven't had a pure
pad only meeting yet okay yeah yeah I
think I think it's just that we've been
like between the oak euphoric ARS so
we're going to do I mean I'm good to try
to have like it's design sprints in a
couple of weeks
well kind of I think answer the
questions that you have
Victor my only comment they think at
this time is whether it might make sense
to try to unify the codebase and just
have like a dev mode switch of some kind
if and it gives you what you need in
terms of like the debugging output but
it doesn't like resultant so much
differences of the code basis at least
haven't be in the same repo you know
just about I say I think most
importantly currency is missing I you
mentioned like in a few weeks we will
know what the Pinner would be but I I
mean that feels like a very long time to
just write a list of requirements
because like right now when and anyone
who is working on the panel they
currently are just freeform guessing
what would be cool to have in the panel
I say I think we need to schedule
something right now before we continue
working on the Penner to actually figure
out what what are we doing with the
Penner in reality like before we
continue to work on the panel we need to
know exactly what the tenor should be
okay
that's that's fair so let's let's have a
narrow focus design discussion this week
and something work out Braganza than a
couple of weeks yeah that's yeah that
works for me I'll try to schedule
something then after this call yeah
that's good thank you
this is the inner question or are you
talking about like a specific how do we
get you know ten stuff for pure powder
are we talking like more generically
whether it's you know discuss the fire
or anything else like how do we want to
go about pending things that aren't you
know that we need for our applications
whether it's the people name related or
or the data itself the second s with
the current view is is pierced our
generic so you can you can it's not in
any way it's specific to be pure path
and I don't think there is the need to
but it's right on the main driver for
for for that people at is my driver for
the pinion because people need to to
persist their changes but there's a
there's like a hook that the application
can tell its to like take a snapshot
right there's a hook where works I'm
working on on well the pinion right now
acts as another peer that well more or
less like an ID connected to it like any
other peer so there is he participates
in in collaboration but in in a
read-only manner because it doesn't have
the keys right so its participation in
collaboration is as other appear so you
get replication events to that that you
know and now we can identify with this
pull request I'm working on we can now
identify that it is a pin ER and so you
can have pinning specific events so
because the pinion gives us different
guarantees that then a normal normal
peer another person that I'm
collaborating with when everything about
me for instance
it's very supposed to know that it's a
pin or so now we know that the protocol
knows that with a repo request and and
now I'm exposing the the event when it
spins right that's what I'm working on
so you can do that on on you why they
have like those signals emergent on UI
I haven't seen the public wise but how
are you you know making the codes to
identify the Pinner is that we are
public key and a private key and some
exchange or no it'sit's it's in a
trustful manner so it's just the pure a
little file themselves itself as a
pillar I think I the protocol has as an
option for that so you could say oh yeah
I'm opinion I'm on the pin by default in
on the pin here so if you're at European
or in terms of almost educating that
that that attributes its we could have
like a well known list of pinners in the
future which are specific we could think
about different different ways of of
educating that but its current currently
it's
I would say well it's a feature that
bedford missing yeah okay so so at the
moment I can if I if I was a bad guy I
could like forged a fake and do
this do bad stuff right if I if I if I
wanted to
yes you could do bad stuff in the sense
that you could get the changes from
other peers you would not be able to
decrypt them you would not be able to
produce different changes because they
would be invalid you could do some
limited tests like probably the denial
of service level attacks and probably
some timing attacks I'm not I'm not sure
depending on on how the the other the
the frequency of updates I think they're
well I there is in place some some
throttling on on the communication to
the Pinner so those attacks could be
minimized but there's it's a whole
discussion that happens to be happy in
terms of the pinna features yeah I'm
ready but let's let's let's table the
detailed discussion yep then have a
dedicated meeting on that I agree
more questions to Jim so we're there
were like one minute after so we still
have two people so grisco so are you
they already want to give your update
and I think you have an agenda entry you
can update yes yes what I'm working on I
mean if you want if you want to ya know
if you want to yeah sure so I am working
on Molly on the research side so
currently I am kind of making a mix of
CDG's and keep the structure so
essentially a mix of course on trees and
Merkle trees so it is like a CD data
structure which is also more coal first
on everything then thiophene is named
Tyrone replicated object notation it is
basically a way to serialize jaribg data
structures basically dictated and there
are some interesting novel features so
it is based obser immutable obviously
because you need to meet ability to have
hirtius american and it is addressed
absurd addressed either by you Yogi's or
by hashes or by officers depending on
the context and environment so some new
interesting features so the protocol is
Mallis work in our demo plication is a
real-time revision control system so it
is like a revision control system which
you can embed into your editor so
basically when you press control as for
example it may sent exist in Russian of
the code too
continuous integration for example this
kind of things so the other guy who is
working with me might a little demo
based on Microsoft Visual Studio code
and well and sabbatical protocol works
are data types there is little demo and
the difficult part now is actually the
storage engine the storage engine which
must do
see he is like a salt fin we already
have one version actually couple of
versions working but actually mixing CD
and crypt is a difficult task so you're
mostly struggling with that now and also
having some discussions about Jason Bay
civilization for the protocol soul is
smallest the fins we are working on yep
questions there are is there a link to
like some stuff I can I can take a look
at in school probably called open the
chat here
there's a girl the bottom of the screen
and there's things of Laurel papa
or oh yeah or meeting there's a on the
meeting menu or in the crib pad Jonah I
can repay you can paste paste to the
crib pad yeah we're a bit behind so just
there's a note Victoire it could be very
cool like to have like a demo for
instance one of these next meetings so
it's free could think about that that
would be also good then you can drop
drop
add in some some and for everyone also
some something's on the crib pad that it
is just paste it I'm not going to go
ahead to defeat David sorry
hey I don't yeah I just introduce myself
quickly I'm currently working at IBM
mainly doing boring stuff and so with my
current position I'm I'm able to sort of
work on whatever I want and for a
certain amount of time and I'm a former
Mozilla engineer I've worked with you
might have you might know lyrically you
might know Dietrich Iowa worked with all
those guys very closely for about five
years and also worked on w3c standards
for web crypto and things like this so I
have a and then I've worked at SpiderOak
and built sort of an encrypted Twitter
type system and of course this whole
time yearning for a system like I DFS
for completely decentralized toolkit to
start playing with and so I've been
building
sort of an identity establishment
application and API and it's in the link
and I don't want to keep everyone's time
but take a look at it please pick it
apart I it's it's basically like you
know alpha alpha and I'm building this
thing just to learn I'd be FS and to
figure out how all of your systems work
extremely interested in the IP of Essen
what can be done you know and I I kind
of love a lot of the sort of you know I
don't know what you might call
shortcomings that it might have because
it's making everything very creative so
that's that's that's what I'm doing it's
it's on github at IBM and then I plan to
hopefully start working on some of the
other repos and I'd be FS so I'll be
picking around for stuff that might be
that you might get some attention to
some good first book type work but
anyway yeah the system that I'm built is
very naive its it just kind of uses the
initial ipfs key pair to establish an
identity and then of course it allows
users to put proofs up very ad hoc up at
github and it read it and the client
will you'll tell the peers tell each
other about their proofs and then and
their public keys and then the pure
application goes and gets your proofs
and verifies them so trying to automate
more of that and of course it's lacking
lots of tests and I'm looking deeply
into the ipfs Identity Manager
requirements and what is needed to
really so glad you guys have put all
that thinking out there and I there's a
lot of stuff I'm missing and I would
like to work on that as well so there's
no room again I'm interested in learning
this stuff I don't really care what repo
I do it in I just started one to test or
one so cool I think I think you should
get involved in a deep dive discussion
that will have about you know identity
in
and everything about an entity there's a
lot of stuff that you you are working on
that we will be working on so I think
wish we could just you know merge
together forces you know in order to do
not do not have duplicating for efforts
for the same goals absolutely I have no
I wouldn't even mind if if any code
could be useful we could merge it into
your repos or what have you it doesn't
doesn't matter to me I just want to see
this stuff move forward so yeah like be
sorry pitiful it can even be like you
know probable are open source packages
for instance they don't have stuff
related to proofs and silencers and so
on it can be you know stand-alone
modules it doesn't they don't
necessarily need to leave in an eidm a
repository they are just dependencies
off IDM so I guess I guess we can just
you know make make a list of all the
requirements and make make a possible
list of Records we might need and then
develop them together that's that's
let's get everyone that is interested in
deep dive like put their names at at the
end of the the crib pad and and then I
will and then I will invite you to a
doodle so that you can share your
availability and then we can schedule
something I think it will be interesting
also to schedule something new currently
let's let this cost
sorry discussed this at that at that
meeting if it's okay with you because
we're running a bit well we ran out of
time already like 11 minutes ago and the
questions for for the bit David sorry
no cool so we have like you have the vid
in the David the vid is the the
Portuguese one and so on
I pretty much any answer to anything you
know it's fine alright okay so let's
let's move on the Victor are you do you
want to want to discuss something about
the Pinner or do you let's let's
postpone that into the session yeah I
think we touch that touch on that in
teams so the the result would be that
our colleague will schedule a meeting
this week where we can craft
requirements for the beautiful cool not
sure if anyone who wants to stick around
for like a very very quick and
interesting text-based demo I'm I can
share my my screen really quickly and
it's just yeah it's yeah I just spoiled
it all right yeah I'm just creating a
collaboration with two two peers and the
Pinner
and I should get the the replication
cross replication events right now from
from that I'll show the codes after
let's see if it's working I was working
on that on this like 30 seconds before
the meeting started so it's probably not
going to work
as a painter there's the first to know
there's a painter the Pinner is in the
collaboration yeah so I received
received two and from that there is a
third a third one that it disappeared
that's so that the event tells whether
it's a Pinner
and the API will look something like so
these events will be received replicated
and pinned unless you have like better
better suggestions for for alternative
event names so replicated is or saved
you can see like saved and into another
peer loaded or received from another
peer and pinned is saved but into a pin
or that is a different appear that is a
opinion itself
yeah that's question yeah I got a few
suggestions but I don't want to you know
have discussions on that because we're
over schedule but I think you'll
schedule like something around having
especially on the Pinner so perhaps I
give some some of my thoughts about how
can we authenticate the spinner and
identify the Pinner themselves within
within within the within your circle
because I think having a pins event you
know I am not really sure about if we
think with which goods differentiate
normal peers and year's winners I think
we can incorporate identity around peers
and pinners so that we can identify
pinners just like i can identify pedro
as as net beer and Adina's at peer
because you know pinners can have
identity and in its theory of works we
can we can prove that the preneur is a
and
you know I will just have like a way to
get the D idea of the pure and and Bree
fights but yeah I in general I agree
with you I think we need a let's say
strict or a twenty five pillars but that
is not based on them the planer telling
us they were thinner and we trusting
that that that that that's true but also
peanuts are different in terms of the
protocol because the Peter doesn't have
the keys if there is a private
collaboration and so we have to be
careful not to send them
well not careful but we don't need to
send them deltas we just just send them
entire states because Delta they they
don't need to use Delta's because I
cannot reduce the Delta to the state so
if a new replica comes online and and
there is a document that it's been
long-running there's a lot of Delta's
you have two options like the Pinner
stores the entirety know the the toll
all the history of a document or only
stores the state if we sort just storing
the state that will make bootstrapping
process of a new replica faster right so
that's that's the that's justice to
explain that there is differences
between between opinion and and the
normal notes in terms of the protocol
and the capabilities themselves but I
agree that that we need to once you
identify what what P but requires I
would that my suggestion this is is to
is to make that available on peers are
somehow right now there is like this
there would like like two events receive
them and locked loaded and saved and and
there's a specialization of the saved
one which is into a thinner set into a
peer so it's it's kind of not a definite
solution I I had with but something that
could get us off the ground in terms of
adding this feature right said to be
open a no more peer part itself
but yeah we can have that this
discussion on yeah a bit later and tied
into a creep and if you want to this is
a suggestion
yeah sure I think both Jim and I then
were kind of ready to set the hand at
the same time Jim you have your mic is
open you want to ask something
no I yeah I think we should have another
meeting on pinners because there's just
a lot of ideas and everybody seems to be
working on their own flavor of it what I
did was I added some stuff into it so we
should actually have Turkey involved
than that I agree let's let's again I
will I will broadcast a little with with
sometimes your us to think I did wanted
us something no like a carrot stuffing
and get okay all right any more notes or
questions that things that haven't been
covered yet that you want to
No all right so meeting adjourned thank
you for coming I will put these notes as
a pull request into the dynamic data
capabilities repo after uploading the
video onto YouTube and and posting the
link on to the notes as always let's
follow up on all these action items and
I will do that setting up a bunch of
each a bunch of meetings mainly I think
and also all go through the recording
again to have any notes that I may have
missed thank you for coming
see you about my guy thank you